An Earth Month Mission: Investigating Incredible Minds in NatureBy investing in science, exploration, storytelling and education, the National Geographic Society is working to help safeguard species around the world and support opportunities for a healthier coexistence between humans and marine animals. This Earth Month, join us as we illuminate, celebrate, and protect critical marine ecosystems around the world.
Scientific research allows us to gain a window into other worlds that can help your students uncover the remarkable intelligence of many animal minds. Marine life likeoctopusesand other cephalopods have shown to have incredible intelligence, and one National Geographic Explorer is working to better understand these fascinating creatures.
Meet Alexandra Schnell, a producer and the principal storyteller forSecrets of the Octopus, is a National Geographic Explorer and a researcher with a passion for inspiring diverse audiences to care for the natural world.
Schnell began her career as a formally trained marine biologist, but she is now also  an internationally recognized expert in comparative cognition, studying the mental capabilities of non-human animals. Her research explores the cognition of a wide variety of  animals, including birds and cephalopods. Schnell strives to shift our perspective by uncovering the remarkable cognitive abilities of even the most mystifying animal minds.
Dive into Alexandra’s mind with this Q&A about her work, inspirations, and advice for learners who may become scientists!
Question: What is the life of a scientist like?
Alex Schnell (AS) :Being a scientist is incredibly dynamic. My days are filled with deep contemplation about animals in their natural environments,whichoften leads to those thrilling ‘eureka’ moments. I engage in creative thinking to devise experiments that can test observations. I spend countless hours observing and interacting with the animals, either in a lab setting or in the wild, which is as challenging as it is rewarding.
Each stage, from observation to presentation, is unique and crucial. The constant change and the opportunity to uncover new insights are what I cherish most about being a scientist. It’s a career fueled by curiosity and a deep desire to understand the natural world.
Classroom Tip:Encourage your students to think like a scientist with this collection ofCitizen Scienceresources. Regardless of your age, location or process, citizen science brings everyone into the important work of learning more about and protecting our planet!
Question: What can everyday people do to protect the planet and the local ecosystem in their communities?
AS:Sometimes, the enormity of environmental challenges can leave us feeling overwhelmed, questioning the impact of our individual actions on the planet. It’s easy to feel small and powerless in the face of global issues, but it’s crucial to remember that our choices have power. One of the first steps is to reflect on our daily decisions and their broader implications. Consider the origins of the food we eat or the clothes we wear: Are these produced sourced ethically? Do they cause significant harm to the environment? By making more sustainable choices and advocating for eco-friendly policies, we can collectively contribute to the health of our local ecosystems and the planet. Every small action counts towards building a more sustainable future.
Classroom Tip:Watch thisvideoon sustainable living to help your students understand how to use old materials in new ways may just help save forests and endangered species around the world.
Question: How can we be good stewards of the ocean (or the planet) and the animals and ecosystem that exist in it?
AS:Our oceans need healing, they cover over 70% of our planet and yet there are converging crises of climate change, biodiversity loss, and welfare risks to marine animals. But in order to heal our oceans we need to first be able to empathize with it. How do we empathize with a huge mass of water? We need to think about, and connect with, the critters it supports. The creatures of the sea, from the smallest fish to the largest whales are not so different from us. Many are vulnerable, possess intelligence, and have the capacity to experience emotions. Recognizing these traits helps dissolve the “otherness” of the ocean, reminding us of our shared vulnerability and interconnection.
Personally, I make an effort to connect with nature daily, whether it’s through a walk with my dog, a swim in the ocean, or paddle boarding on the lake. These moments of connection enhance my understanding and appreciation of the natural world. By fostering a deeper connection with the ocean and its diverse ecosystems, we can become better stewards of the ocean, working towards its preservation and recovery.
Classroom Tip:Use thisactivity, powered by MapMaker, to help your students map and study marine protected areas. Then, explore theMarine Ecosystems Collectionon the Edu Hub to find more classroom activities, learning tools and resources.
The Explorer Mindset Learning Framework is centered around attitudes, skills, andknowledge that helps students think like Explorers! This framework helps learners fostercuriosity, build knowledge and inspire informed action to protect our world. What motivatesyou to keep pursuing your research and how can students and classrooms get involved?
AS:My journey into research has always been driven by passion, guiding me towards subjects that fascinated me, even when they strayed from the more job-secure paths like climate change research of coastal management.
To encourage students and classrooms to get involved and cultivate an Explorer Mindset, it’s essential to start with fostering curiosity. Students can engage with the scientific community through projects, citizen science, and by staying informed about current research. Opportunities such as participating in local conservation efforts, connecting with researchers for classroom talks, and exploring interactive science platforms online can immerse students in the real-world applications of science. Encouraging students to explore their interests deeply, even those outside the mainstream job markets, can lead to a rewarding and educational journey and ultimately, a meaningful career. Emphasizing the value of passion, perseverance, and curiosity in science can inspire students to pursue their interests with conviction.
Classroom Tip:Usethis resourceto help your students get an introduction to ocean conservation, then put the Explorer Mindset Learning Framework into action using thisresource guide.
How and why does one become a professional scientist?
AS:Becoming a professional scientist often starts with a deep curiosity about the world and desire to solve its mysteries. This path is typically pursued through formal education starting with a bachelor’s degree in a scientific field, followed by postgraduate studies for specialization. Beyond academics, it involves hands-on research, internships, and sometimes, contributing to scientific publications even before completing one’s studies. The ‘why’ is deeply personal but usually revolves around a passion for discovery, understanding complex natural phenomena, and the ambition to contribute to societal advancement through science. Many scientists are driven by the prospect of making impactful discoveries that can address global challenges, improve lives, and expand human knowledge.
The National Geographic Society proudly supports research that explores the cognitive abilities of marine animal life, reshaping how we think about the exceptional minds of species that call the ocean their home. Find out how you and your students can support Explorers like Alexandra Schnell and their important work atwww.natgeo.org/earthmonth.
